# TCP-Fuzzer 🌐📠
TCP-Fuzzer is a tool for protocol-state-fuzzing TCP implementations. The tool is currently WIP and undergoing major restructuring.

## Requirements
The tool can be deployed in an isolated environment using Docker (isolated), or directly on the host system (local).
For an isolated deployment, you only need Docker.
For a local deployment, the tool needs Python 3.12 (or later), Java JDK 21 (or later), and Maven for deployment.
Currently, non-Java part of the tool has been tested only on Linux and on other OS-es, if the tool is deployed locally.

## Development status
Docker support is WIP, and not yet guaranteed to work.
The _Mapper_ does not support learning clients or learning with socket commands.
Hence, TCP-Fuzzer can only generate state machines for listening servers.

## Installation
`cd` to the fuzzer directory.
### Local
Install the _Learner_ and the _Mapper_ environment by running:
```
./install.sh
```

This should create two directories:
- `learner\target`, which contains build artifacts for the Learner including `TCP-Learner.jar`;
- `mapper\.venv`, which contains the Python virtual environment of the mapper.

### Isolated environment
This is not fully supported, but in principle one should run:
```
docker compose up
```
## Quick run
In this example, we use TCP-Fuzzer to generate a state machine for the server implementation of the TCP stack running on the host machine.
### Local
We run separately the _Learner_, _Mapper_ and _TCP Entity_, each in its own terminal.

For the _Mapper_, we first activate its Python environment, and then run it, supplying the default configuration file contained in `config`.
```
source mapper/.venv/bin/activate
sudo mapper/.venv/bin/python mapper/main.py config/mapperconfig.toml
```
We note the addresses (IP and port) the _Mapper_ expects for the _TCP Entity_ (which is a server, configured `serverIP` and `serverPort`), and for the _Learner_ (`socketIP` and  `socketPort`).
We need to match these addresses when running the _Learner_ and _TCP Entity_.
Also, we use `sudo`  as the raw socket capability required by _Mapper_ requires elevated permissions.

Then we launch the _TCP Entity_, which can be any TCP server application (clients are not yet supported). We will use the one included with TCP-Fuzzer. The port has to correspond with the value of `serverPort` the _Mapper_ was configured.
```
python3 sutadapter/serverAdapter.py --port 9000
```

Finally we launch the _Learner_ with default arguments, which include the alphabet `config/alphabet.xml`.
```
java -jar learner/target/TCP-Learner.jar config/learner_args
```

You should be able to see activity in both the _Mapper_ and _Learner_ terminals.
Results of learning will be stored in a folder inside the `output` directory.

## Components

##### Learner
_Learner_ is Java tool based on [ProtocolState-Fuzzer][psf], which interacts with TCP entities (sending input symbols/receiving output symbols) to construct state machine models capturing their behavior.
It uses a _Mapper_ to mediate communication with the TCP entity.

The input alphabet (i.e., possible input symbols) comprises:
- segment inputs, which indicate the flag configurations to be used in the segments to be sent to the SUT, e.g., "S" means to generate a segment with the SYN flag set (a so-called SYN segment);
- socket commands, which indicate the socket commands the _Mapper_ should perform on the TCP stack.

The output alphabet (i.e., possible output symbols)  comprises:
- no response ("Timeout") in case the SUT produced no output (segments) in response to an input;
- segment outputs, which indicate the the flag configurations of the segments generated by the SUT, e.g., "SA" means the SUT has generated a segment with the SYN and ACK flags set (a so-called SYN+ACK segment).

##### Mapper

_Mapper_ (previously known as Network Adapter) is a Python tool which performs a dual function:
- it transforms segment inputs to actual segments and sends them to _TCP Entity_, or forwards socket commands to the _TCP Adapter_ for execution;
- it receives segment responses, or timeouts, from the TCP Entity, abstracts them into output symbols (e.g., by extracting the flag configuration) which it delivers to the _Learner_.

##### TCP Adapter and Entity

_TCP Entity_ is your TCP stack, which at present can only be a server (client support WIP). _TCP Adapter_ envelops a _TCP Entity_, and is used to perform socket commands on it.

## Acknowledgements
The tool was originally developed by Isaac Westerman as part of his Bachelor's thesis. The code is based on [tcp-learner](https://github.com/pfg666/tcp-learner), a TCP protocol-state fuzzer developed by Paul Fiterau and Ramon Janssen.

[psf]:https://github.com/protocol-fuzzing/protocol-state-fuzzer/
[tcplearner]:https://github.com/pfg666/tcp-learner
